apple-app-specific-password.md, before:

# Apple App-Specific Password

The Apple app-specific password is a password for your Apple ID account that lets you sign in to your Apple account securely from a third-party app. It is required by the EAS Submission Service to submit your build to the Apple App Store.

### How do I generate an app-specific password?

1. Sign in to your [Apple ID account](https://appleid.apple.com/account/home).
2. Go to the _Security_ section and click `Generate Password` under _App-Specific Passwords_.
3. Follow the instructions on your screen.

> **Important note**: To generate and use app-specific passwords, your Apple ID must be protected with [two-factor authentication](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT204915) (2FA).

You can learn more about app-specific passwords [here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204397).

## How do I use the app-specific password once I have generated it?

You can use [EAS CLI](https://github.com/expo/eas-cli) to submit your build to the Apple App Store using the app-specific password.
The app-specific password is passed to the EAS CLI as an environment variable called `EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD`.

Use the following command to submit your iOS build using the app-specific password:

```bash
EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD=your_app_specific_password eas submit -p ios
```

Commit message:

Add security information about Apple App-Specific password EAS Submit auth method

apple-app-specific-password.md, after:

# Apple App-Specific Password

The Apple app-specific password is a password for your Apple ID account that lets you sign in to your Apple account securely from a third-party app. It is one of the authentication methods that can be used by the EAS Submit service to submit your build to the Apple App Store.

### Security

> [!WARNING]
> This authentication method is considered less secure than using the App Store Connect API key by the Expo team, especially for personal Apple accounts, because of the broad permissions the app-specific password grants to the actor/service who has it. We recommend using the App Store Connect API key for submitting your builds to the Apple App Store (this is default and recommended authentication method). [Learn more](https://docs.expo.dev/app-signing/security/#apple-app-specific-password).

### How do I generate an app-specific password?

1. Sign in to your [Apple ID account](https://appleid.apple.com/account/home).
2. Go to the _Security_ section and click `Generate Password` under _App-Specific Passwords_.
3. Follow the instructions on your screen.

> [!NOTE]
> **Important note**: To generate and use app-specific passwords, your Apple ID must be protected with [two-factor authentication](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT204915) (2FA).

You can learn more about app-specific passwords [here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204397).

## How do I use the app-specific password once I have generated it?

You can use [EAS CLI](https://github.com/expo/eas-cli) to submit your build to the Apple App Store using the app-specific password.
The app-specific password is passed to the EAS CLI as an environment variable called `EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD`.

Use the following command to submit your iOS build using the app-specific password:

```bash
EXPO_APPLE_APP_SPECIFIC_PASSWORD=your_app_specific_password eas submit -p ios
```
