creating-google-service-account.md, before:

# Creating Google Service Account

If you’d like to submit your Android app to Google Play Store with `eas submit` you need to create a Google Service Account key. This page will guide you through this process.

1. Open [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/), expand **Setup**, and choose **API access**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/01-open-google-play-console.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/01-open-google-play-console.png)

2. If you see a message saying API access is not enabled for your account, you must first link your Google Play developer account with a Google Developer Project. On this page, select **Choose a project to link**, then either link it to an existing project if you have one, or select **Create new project** and then click **Link project**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/02-api-access.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/02-api-access.png)

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/03-create-new-project.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/03-create-new-project.png)

3. Click **Learn how to create service accounts** and follow the **Google Cloud Platform** link in the dialog.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/04-create-new-service-account.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/04-create-new-service-account.png)

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/05-service-account-dialog.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/05-service-account-dialog.png)

4. Click another **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT** button.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/06-google-cloud-platform.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/06-google-cloud-platform.png)

5. Enter the name of this service account in the field titled "Service account name". We recommend a name that will make it easy for you to remember that it is for your Google Play Console account. Also, enter the service account ID and description of your choice. Click the **CREATE** button.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/07-service-account-name.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/07-service-account-name.png)

6. Click **Select a role** and choose **Service Accounts > Service Account User**. Click **DONE**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/08-service-account-permissions.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/08-service-account-permissions.png)

7. Select **Manage keys** from the options button for your newly created Service Account, then **Create new key**. Choose **JSON** and then the **CREATE** button. Download the `.json` file and store it in a safe place.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-a-create-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-a-create-key.png)
[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-b-create-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-b-create-key.png)
[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/10-create-json-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/10-create-json-key.png)

8. Return to the **API access page** on the Google Play Console and ensure it shows your new service account. Click on **Manage Play Console permissions** for the newly added service account.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/11-grant-access.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/11-grant-access.png)

9. Click **Invite user**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/12-invite-user.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/12-invite-user.png)

10. Click **Send invitation**,

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/13-send-invitation.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/13-send-invitation.png)

11. That's all! From now on, you can use the generated Google Service Account to upload your app with `eas submit`.

Commit message:

Add a note about enabling the Google Play API in Google Cloud (#114)

creating-google-service-account.md, after:

# Creating Google Service Account

If you’d like to submit your Android app to Google Play Store with `eas submit` you need to create a Google Service Account key. This page will guide you through this process.

1. Open [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/), expand **Setup**, and choose **API access**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/01-open-google-play-console.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/01-open-google-play-console.png)

2. If you see a message saying API access is not enabled for your account, you must first link your Google Play developer account with a Google Developer Project. On this page, select **Choose a project to link**, then either link it to an existing project if you have one, or select **Create new project** and then click **Link project**. If you are linking an existing project, that project must have the Google Play Android Developer API enabled in Google Cloud.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/02-api-access.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/02-api-access.png)

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/03-create-new-project.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/03-create-new-project.png)

3. Click **Learn how to create service accounts** and follow the **Google Cloud Platform** link in the dialog.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/04-create-new-service-account.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/04-create-new-service-account.png)

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/05-service-account-dialog.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/05-service-account-dialog.png)

4. Click another **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT** button.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/06-google-cloud-platform.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/06-google-cloud-platform.png)

5. Enter the name of this service account in the field titled "Service account name". We recommend a name that will make it easy for you to remember that it is for your Google Play Console account. Also, enter the service account ID and description of your choice. Click the **CREATE** button.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/07-service-account-name.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/07-service-account-name.png)

6. Click **Select a role** and choose **Service Accounts > Service Account User**. Click **DONE**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/08-service-account-permissions.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/08-service-account-permissions.png)

7. Select **Manage keys** from the options button for your newly created Service Account, then **Create new key**. Choose **JSON** and then the **CREATE** button. Download the `.json` file and store it in a safe place.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-a-create-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-a-create-key.png)
[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-b-create-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/09-b-create-key.png)
[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/10-create-json-key.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/10-create-json-key.png)

8. Return to the **API access page** on the Google Play Console and ensure it shows your new service account. Click on **Manage Play Console permissions** for the newly added service account.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/11-grant-access.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/11-grant-access.png)

9. Click **Invite user**.

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/12-invite-user.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/12-invite-user.png)

10. Click **Send invitation**,

[<img src="./assets/creating-google-service-account/13-send-invitation.png" width="800" />](./assets/creating-google-service-account/13-send-invitation.png)

11. That's all! From now on, you can use the generated Google Service Account to upload your app with `eas submit`.
