embedded-assets.md, before:

# Embedded Assets

In addition to loading updates from remote servers, apps with `expo-updates` installed also include the necessary capability to load updates embedded in the app binary at build-time. This is critical to ensure that your app can load for all users immediately upon installation, without needing to talk to a server first.

When you run `expo export` or `expo publish` with `expo-updates` installed, Expo CLI will make local copies of the update's manifest (`app.manifest`) and JavaScript bundle (`app.bundle`) so they can be included in the Xcode and Android Studio projects and embedded in release-mode application binaries.

For iOS, these files are created by default in the `ios/<your-project-name>/Supporting` directory. **You must add these files to your Xcode project if they are not already added.**

For Android, these files are created by default in the `android/app/src/main/assets` directory. Simply putting them in this directory is sufficient for Gradle to include them in the APK; no further action is needed on your part.

Commit message:

[embedded-assets] update for expo-updates@0.2.x

embedded-assets.md, after:

# Embedded Assets

In addition to loading updates from remote servers, apps with `expo-updates` installed also include the necessary capability to load updates embedded in the app binary at build-time. This is critical to ensure that your app can load for all users immediately upon installation, without needing to talk to a server first.

## `expo-updates@0.2.x`

If you're running `expo-updates@0.2.x` or above, you no longer have to worry about this. `expo-updates` will take care of embedding your JS bundle and all requisite assets as part of the included build steps.

## `expo-updates@0.1.x`

> If you're still running expo-updates@0.1.x, we recommmend you upgrade to 0.2.x or later as soon as possible! More information [here](https://blog.expo.io/over-the-air-updates-from-expo-are-now-even-easier-to-use-376e2213fabf).

When you run `expo export` or `expo publish` with `expo-updates` installed, Expo CLI will make local copies of the update's manifest (`app.manifest`) and JavaScript bundle (`app.bundle`) so they can be included in the Xcode and Android Studio projects and embedded in release-mode application binaries.

For iOS, these files are created by default in the `ios/<your-project-name>/Supporting` directory. **You must add these files to your Xcode project if they are not already added.**

For Android, these files are created by default in the `android/app/src/main/assets` directory. Simply putting them in this directory is sufficient for Gradle to include them in the APK; no further action is needed on your part.
